This is a written Manual to all features of BrickEssentials. Make sure to use the Blender Version 3.5 or above to have all features working properly.

||BrickHouse:

With this feature you can create large city scenes even on low end pc's.
for now there are only a few house types you can choose from, there will be more in the future though.

Select the type of house you want to import and hit the "Add House" Button.

||Brickalizer:

With this feature you can turn any 3d object into Lego, it is mainly intended for create a Lego ground.

Select each brick you want the Brickalizer to use.
set the proportions x y z.

x and y in studs (if it is not a square, y must be larger than x)

z height in stacked plates.

After adding ALL bricks you want the Brickalizer to use, Select your object and press "Generate".

Bigger Objects will take longer. I am still working on it.

||Blasterizor:

With this feature, animating guns is done with one click.

Import you the gun, projectile and blast/shockwave pieces from mecabricks. If you want to have a shockwave, check the "Blast ON/OFF" box. Set the "Projectile speed" and "Projectile lifetime" to your liking.

Now define your "Projectile Part" object and if the above checked the "Blast Stage 1 Part". You can leave "Blast Stage 2 Part" empty, or add another object if you want a shockwave animation.

When ready, just hit "Generate" while having your gun selected.

||BrickStrings:

Just hit the buttons to add the individuall BrickStrings Objects.

||BrickCrowd:

First press "Add Crowd Nodes" then add minifigures with the "Add Minifig to Collection", you may add multiple minifigures.

Make sure to move your Minifis to the center x and y before adding.

You can delete the Cylinder Object, it is just for orientation.

You can play around with the settings of the Geometry Node when selecting the crowd object and going to modifier tab.

||BrickBuilder:

BrickBuilder can be used to make building animations.

"Amount" defines how many bricks get built at the same time.
"Speed" is the speed the bricks fly from the source to their place.
Select the collection of your build in "Bricks Collection"
Select a starting/spawn point, from where the bricks get build with "Pin Point", you may animation that points location.
Check "Hide Before Building" to make the bricks be invisible before they get placed.
Now just hit "Build"
